2021.2.0 Release blog (#16395)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_posts/2021-02-03-release-20212.markdown

og_image: /images/blog/2021-02/social.png
---

> <img src='/images/blog/2021-02/social.png' style='border: 0;box-shadow: none; margin-bottom: 20px;'>

Reviewer: Weird, did we used to add margin bottom in the past?

Author: I really don't know...

Author: Fixed, will push out in a moment.

<img src='/images/blog/2021-02/social.png' style='border: 0;box-shadow: none;'>

> Dear homie,

Reviewer: It's a bit tight.

<img width="158" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1444314/106768579-554b4800-663c-11eb-8b0c-5d2771257575.png">

Author: Done

Usually, I try to write a small introduction that recaps the release, while
putting a bit of my view in it as well. This release, however, I'm struggling
to find the right words...

So there is DHCP discovery added, which is super nice! And some really
helpful new Blueprint selectors, tons of UI tweaks! But honestly...

**Have you heard about Z-Wave JS?!**

Well, out of nowhere, a huge bunch of developers came together this month and

> spat out a completely new, full-blown, fast, slick, sexy, complete, new Z-Wave

Reviewer 2: is "new" intended to be there twice?

Author: Nope, removed. Thanks!

to see the light in just a month!

- [@AlCalzone]
- [@balloob]
- [@bramkragten]
- [@cgarwood]
- [@firstof9]
- [@itewk]
- [@jcam]
- [@kpine]
- [@marcelveldt]
- [@MartinHjelmare]
- [@Michsior14]
- [@Petro31]
- [@pvizeli]
- [@raman325]
- [@robertsLando]

Yes, that is an awful lot of people! Amazing how this all came together
and incredible work!

[@AlCalzone]: https://github.com/AlCalzone
[@itewk]: https://github.com/itewk
[@jcam]: https://github.com/jcam
[@kpine]: https://github.com/kpin
[@Michsior14]: https://github.com/Mchsior14
[@robertsLando]: http://github.com/robertsLando

### What about the old Z-Wave integration?

The old [`zwave`](/integrations/zwave) integration has been based on
OpenZWave 1.4, which is really old and does not get any upstream updates
anymore. This also means that it is hard for us to keep it in a working state
for the upcoming future.

Therefore, as of today, the old Z-Wave is marked as being **deprecated**.

If one is starting with Home Assistant and Z-Wave, the `zwave` integration is
no longer recommended. For existing users, we recommend migrating to the
[Z-Wave JS integration](/integrations/zwave_js). However, don't panic,

> `zwave` is deprecated but not removed yet.

Reviewer: Maybe clarify that we don't plan on removing the `zwave` integration unless it can no longer be made to be build for the latest Python release. Now "yet" leaves a lot of room for interpretation.

### What about the OpenZWave beta integration?

Over a year ago, Home Assistant started working on the
[OpenZWave integration](/integrations/ozw). Based on OpenZWave 1.6 and the
OZW daemon, using MQTT as a transport. This project was promising and something
we put a lot of time and effort in.

Unfortunately, the OpenZWave project itself became a bit staler as most
of the upstream development is done by a single person:
Justin Hammond (Fishwaldo).

Quite a few people were worried about the lesser activity on OpenZWave.

> Justin [has responded on our forum][fishwaldo] on what is happening in his life
> and it is sad to read how many people have personally impacted him negatively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Justin [has responded on our forum][fishwaldo] how he has been busy with other things
and how negative interactions with users have caused him to lose interest in OpenZWave.
```

> Is OZW Dead - No. I’ll tinker with it, I’ll make changes as time allows,
> but it will be at my own pace, to scratch my own itches now.

> Let us be straight here: OpenZWave is an 11? year-old project, which is used

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let us be straight here: OpenZWave is an 11 year-old project, which is used
```

by an incredible amount of systems (besides Home Assistant) in this world,
with an even greater track record. So:

**Thank you Justin for all you have done in all those years!**

> With the rise of Z-Wave JS and the change of pace announcement above, we don't
> think the OpenZWave integration will make it out of beta. We recommend
> Home Assistant users migrate to the Z-Wave JS integration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The team that was working on the OZW integration have shifted their focus to
the new Z-Wave JS integration. We don't think the OpenZWave integration will
make it out of beta. We recommend Home Assistant users migrate to the
Z-Wave JS integration.
```

This really powerful addition has been made by [@bdraco], and many
integrations have quickly enriched their integrations to use this new
discovery method.

So as of this release, your Home Assistant might actually find some new
devices it can use! Thanks [@bdraco]!

## New Blueprint selectors

For our Blueprint fanatics, some new goodies to the Blueprint has been added
this release. Thanks to [@thomasloven], we now have two new selectors:

<p class='img'>
<img src='/images/blueprints/selector-text.png' alt='Screenshot of the new text selector'>
Screenshot of the text selectors.
</p>

- An object selector: Shows an YAML editor in the UI.
- An text selector: Show a single line text input or text area for longer
  messages in the UI.
- Blueprint descriptions now support Markdown.

<p class='img'>
<img src='/images/blueprints/selector-object.png' alt='Screenshot of new object selector'>
Screenshot of the object selector, giving a YAML input field.
</p>

## Cloud Text to Speech settings

Nabu Casa has been offering an amazing text to speech service for a while now,
yet it was hard to find, and even harder to setup and use.

> We fixed that with a new settings UI, where you can select the default language
> and gender to use for the text to speech service, so you no longer have to
> attach that to every service call.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To fix this, a new settings UI has been added where you can select the default
language and gender to use for the text to speech service, so you no longer have
to attach that to every service call. You can find it in the Home Assistant Cloud
panel.
```

This release has no big new features, but we do have quite a bit of tweaks
that are definitely noteworthy to mention.

- We now give you a clearer reason why your Lovelace card configuration is not
  supported in the UI editor thanks to [@spacegaier].
- Shelly RGB devices are now fully supported!! Nice [@chemelli74]!
- [@dmulcahey] Added filtering and zoom to node to the ZHA network visualization.
  Very useful to find you Zigbee network issues.
- The deCONZ integration added support for logging basic event in the logbook.
  Nicely done [@Kane610].
- The Tasmota integration is out of beta! Awesome [@emontnemery]!
- [@spacegaier] Added support for themes on the media card.
- The items in the shopping list card can be ordered using drag & drop!
  Thanks [@ShaneQi]!
- Newly ignored discovered integrations now show a name of the item ignored.
  This makes it easier to undo that later.
- [@balloob] made a new framework that can detect significant changes in
  entities, allowing to reduce the amount of update we need to send to both
  Google Assistant and Alexa!
- Setting up Lutron Caseta was quite a pain, but not anymore! [@bdraco] added
  one-touch pairing to the integration set up!

> - If you use light profiles, [@Adminiuga] is your man. All parameters
>   of a light profile can now be optional!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If you use [light profiles](/integrations/light/#default-turn-on-values),
  [@Adminiuga] is your man. All parameters of a light profile can now be
  optional and default profiles are always applied.
```

Today, we are proud to announce that Erik Montnemery has joined Nabu Casa
to work full-time on the Home Assistant project.

Some of you might know Erik better by his GitHub handle: [@emontnemery], or
by one of the integrations he works on: [Cast](/integrations/cast),
[Tasmota](/integrations/tasmota) and [MQTT](/integrations/mqtt)!

We are excited to have you aboard Erik! Welcome!

## Python 3.7 dropped, Python 3.9 supported

Support for Python 3.7 has been removed, raising the minimum Python version
you need to run Home Assistant Core to Python 3.8. Python 3.7 was already
deprecated since Home Assistant Core 0.116.0.

This is only a concern if you are running Home Assistant Core directly on
Python. If you run Home Assistant OS, Supervised or Container, you don’t have
to worry about this, as the Home Assistant project takes care of this for you.

However, say hello to: Python 3.9. As of this release, Python 3.9 is fully
supported and tested.

## Z-Wave JS

This release brings you the [Z-Wave JS integration](/integrations/zwave_js)!

A brand new integration for Z-Wave in Home Assistant, full-blown, created
in a just month by a bunch of awesome people!

> More and people were concerned about the future of Z-Wave with Home Assistant;

Reviewer 3: Do you mean more and more people ?

Author: Fixed.

meanwhile the [Z-Wave JS][zwavejs] project was rapidly growing and gathering
a large community around it. Long story short: Home Assistant and Z-Wave JS
teamed up! And a lot of contributors jumped on the train!

This new integration is based on the same base principles as the OpenZWave
integration: It is decoupled from Home Assistant. Instead of MQTT, the Z-Wave

> JS integration uses a Socket.io connection to a Z-Wave JS server.

Reviewer 3: Websocket connection

Author: 👍 Adjusted.

More and more people were concerned about the future of Z-Wave with
Home Assistant; meanwhile the [Z-Wave JS][zwavejs] project was rapidly growing
and gathering a large community around it. Long story short: Home Assistant and
Z-Wave JS teamed up! And a lot of contributors jumped on the train!

This new integration is based on the same base principles as the OpenZWave
integration: It is decoupled from Home Assistant. Instead of MQTT, the Z-Wave
JS integration uses a WebSocket connection to a Z-Wave JS server.

This means, in order to use this new integration, you'll need to run the
Z-Wave JS server that sits in between your Z-Wave USB stick and Home Assistant.
There are multiple options available on running the Z-Wave JS server,
via Docker, manually, but there is also an Home Assistant add-on available.

If you run an installation with a Supervisor, the add-on will even be
set up automatically for you.

[zwavejs]: https://zwave-js.github.io/node-zwave-js/#/

### Current state of Z-Wave JS

The new Z-Wave JS integration is amazingly complete. It supports the following
platforms from the start: Binary Sensors, Climate, Covers, Fans, Lights, Locks,

> Sensors and Switches.

Reviewer 3: Scene events are also supported and maybe you want to mention it is REALLY FAST ;-)

Author: Done!

[roadmap]: https://github.com/home-assistant-libs/zwave-js-server-python/issues/56
[issues]: https://github.com/home-assistant/core/issues/new/choose

### Thanks to all

Thanks to all of the following people, the Z-Wave JS integration was able
to see the light in just a month!

- [@AlCalzone]
- [@balloob]
- [@bramkragten]
- [@cgarwood]
- [@firstof9]
- [@itewk]
- [@jcam]
- [@kpine]
- [@marcelveldt]
- [@MartinHjelmare]
- [@Michsior14]
- [@Petro31]
- [@pvizeli]
- [@raman325]
- [@robertsLando]

Yes, that is an awful lot of people! Amazing how this all came together
and incredible work!

[@AlCalzone]: https://github.com/AlCalzone
[@itewk]: https://github.com/itewk
[@jcam]: https://github.com/jcam
[@kpine]: https://github.com/kpin
[@Michsior14]: https://github.com/Mchsior14
[@robertsLando]: http://github.com/robertsLando

### What about the old Z-Wave integration?

The old [`zwave`](/integrations/zwave) integration has been based on
OpenZWave 1.4, which is really old and does not get any upstream updates
anymore. This also means that it is hard for us to keep it in a working state
for the upcoming future.

Therefore, as of today, the old Z-Wave is marked as being **deprecated**.

> If one starts with Home Assistant and Z-Wave, the `zwave` integration is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If one is starting with Home Assistant and Z-Wave, the `zwave` integration is
```

Author: Thanks! Adjusted in source.
